You will need the Enlightenment Foundation Libraries (EFL) and
Elementary installed before you can build this.  Since I started
experimenting with the new Evas_3D stuff, that means you will need the
1.10 versions.  Source tarballs, and pointers to some pre packaged
binary releases are here -

http://enlightenment.org/p.php?p=download&l=en

Also included on that page is the list of dependencies and compile
order.  You only need EFL, Evas Generic Loaders, Emotion Generic
Players, and  Elementary, plus the dependencies.


Or you can use git -

http://git.enlightenment.org/core/


It should all work under X window managers other than Enlightenment,
though this has not been tested.  The same applies to Linux distros
other than Ubuntu 12.04, that's the only one that hes been tested by me. 
This is all still experimental, but I intend to get it to work under Mac
OS X and Windows as well.

The left side of http://enlightenment.org/p.php?p=download&l=en explains
the build order and requirements. Evas generic loaders will probably be
needed, Emotion generic players likely wont be needed (yet), except as a
requirement of Elementary.  Enlightenment and other apps are not
needed.

Once you have spent hours struggling with getting EFL and Elementary
complied and installed, simply run build.lua from the top level
directory here to build all of this SledjHamr stuff.  There's no
installing going on here, it's still to early in experimental
development, plus nothing does anything useful yet.

In src/extantz/extantz.h, at the top, are a bunch of #defines you can
turn on and off.  Try them out.

Running ./extantz at the top level will run most of the system, since
extantz starts up the love server, and love starts up the LuaSL server. 
Extantz makes ues of GuiLua, purkle, and the other stuff for it's
windows.

You should see a lot of logging style output and a big window.  Most of
the logging style output is from the LSL script runner as it compiles
then runs a copy of the MLP scripts.  The big 3D window has it's own
internal windows.  Try clicking on the rotating cube at te bottom, then
wait until the output from that has stopped, and click again.  The cube
is pretending to be furniture with MLP scripts in it, and is actually
running the test MLP scripts.

You really can't do anything useful with all of this yet.  Yes, I know
the Irrlicht stuff flickers like crazy, that's why it's disabled by
default.


Have lots of fun.
