I don't usually bother with even reading vision statements, and I'm a
compulsive speed reader.  Before I know I should not be reading
something, it's too late, already read it.  lol

SledjHamr is my life's passion though, I've been interested in this sort
of thing since the '80s and '90s.  I've been thinking about how best to
describe it, and it's turning into a sort of vision statement.  So here
it is.  I'll try to avoid being too hand wavy and wanky.

The main goal of the rest of my life is to help make 3D virtual worlds
as easy to use and as useful as possible for everybody.  How's that for
a wanky motherhood statement?

I haz a dreamz.  B-)

The entire system is designed to be easy, mashable, modular, and low on
resource usage.  The default package ties it all together into a newbie
friendly first experience, that can be ignored easily by non newbies. 
All users should be able to easily learn how to at least re-arrange
their furniture, change the wallpaper, and switch their outfits.  More
advanced users will find easy tools for in world building and scripting. 
Experts can easily peek under the hood, and squeal with glee at the
virtual world construction set they find.  Coders like myself can delve
further into the quantum, but still using the built in tools.  Sysadmins
can easily integrate bits into their systems.  People that enjoy mashups
can go nuts.



Initial experience.
-------------------

You download SledjHamr from the Internet, and run it.

You are in a 3D first person view, perhaps using a head mounted display.

First things you see are a school desk, clothing rack, and wall full of
landscapes.

You are greeted by name, the name you used to log onto your desktop.

You are informed that you have three choices, click on the desk to learn
how to work this thing (though the basics, like clicking on the desk,
should be obvious), the rack to sort out what you want to look like, or
one of the landscapes to pick your first home.

When you click on a landscape, it appears around you.  You can explore
it, modify it, or tear it all down and build your own.

Eventually you might want to wander further, or invite some friends to
your new home.  You install a bus stop next to your home, wander over to
it, look at the destination guide, and HyperGrid elsewhere as if you
where on a normal OpenSim grid, using a normal OpenSim viewer.

You unlock your home, and allow some of your friends to visit.  Or (if
you feel your security is up to it) you can open your home to the
public, and let any one in.



More details.
-------------

3D monitors / TVs, caves, Google Cardboard (with things like TrinusVR),
and other things should also work.  As should all manner of input
devices, mapable by the user, but with sensible defaults.

The basic look and feel will be similar to Second Life and OpenSim, at
least to start with.  Though I guess I should add in some graphic
example of "WOW, SL can't do this" in the beginning.  Which may happen
by accident anyway.  B-)

I assume you are running it under some sort of desktop, though phone
support is expected as well.  The basic idea is that in most cases, the
user has already authenticated themselves somewhere in order to get as
far as actually being able to run SledgHamr.  The default for the major
desktop OSes is for the user to have created an account at OS
installation time, even if it's "user" and "password" setup by store
techs building white boxen.  Corporate computers are usually locked down
to staff accounts only.  Smart phones usually have you logged onto their
mothership for spying purposes, er I mean to help the user with all
sorts of useful services.  So no need for the user of SledjHamr to muck
around with creating an account, you are already using it.  They should
be able to change their name though.  I know, display names, yuck.

I'm thinking you might be stuck in first person view until you pick out
an avatar, or just pick something random.  Your default home could also
be a random selection.  There could be theme packs to download, let you
decide these things.  Experts could just load up any IARs / OARs they
have and skip the newbie experience.

The HyperGrid protocol of OpenSim checks with the grid you logged into
to see if you have a legitimate account.  Well, you do, as I pointed out
above.  So visiting any OpenSim grid that allows HyperGrid will let you
teleport to them from your SledjHamr home.  When you open your home, the
people can be coming from an OpenSim grid using the HyperGrid protocol,
or another SledjHamr.  SledjHamr should default to NOT opening up to the
outside.  The default status of your home will be "Locked up tight for
the night."  You are not going out, no one else is coming in.  It will
only open up when you decide to open up, and only as much as you ask
for.  Your home is your castle, or your bosses if you are using a
corporate computer.

Other virtual world protocols will be supported, the SL / OS ones will be
just a wrapper around the SledjHamr protocol.  For direct SledjHamr to
SledjHamr things should be noticeably faster and smoother.  Obviously any
particular protocol will be limited by that protocols own limits.

